[Music]
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here with my co-host Joe Hudson
this week we're going to go into a much
requested topic about Joe's history we
cover the first part of his life from a
relatively standard modern start to
being kicked out of his house as a 13
year old getting a green Mohawk and
collecting spiritual tools from around
the world
tell us what [__] you up
goodness right uh it's pretty early on
uh if you think if I think about my
first seven years I the
that one was you know that was probably
as far as like 0 to 18 probably the most
um most functional part of my childhood
um
there were some issues but
and and also it's that time when so much
and and it like so much of your basic
attachment issues you know get get
created in that time frame and but I
remember that was the time when I had
the strongest relationship with my
father I would I remember
coming home and I remember
um
there was just like they're always
looking forward to him being around and
him always looking forward to us and
that was
I think I think pivotal I don't know if
I really I don't know what how life
would have been without that
and where was this to get to kind of get
some context where were you growing up
what was that yeah the first seven years
were in like Suburban Rich Suburban
Connecticut
um and
but after that like by the time I was 28
I'd lived 26 places or something like
that like I mean I couldn't go back and
count it but I've been saying that so
long that it feels like that's probably
what's right
um
good but I was there was a time where we
were moving every six months so but the
first seven years were in Darien
Connecticut and
and the way that that what happened
there the the the the thing that
affected me there was that my mom was uh
you know was working and she was she was
one of the first people like
in that upper middle class white
um culture that the where the woman was
working and so and my mom in fact uh
uh we'll probably tell you the story
that she had many men who were her
suitors and she picked the one that she
didn't particularly love at first but
who would allow her to have a career and
kids
and so that was like a very important
thing to her and so she and due to some
weird circumstances she had to go to
work she was a professor shortly after I
was born and
and so my mom was was a bit overwhelmed
in her parenting style was you know I
would say a bit rigid at the time that
you know it was very like
um
uh like bit like the job was to train me
when to go to the bathroom so that she
could change diapers on the schedule you
know at like at a very early age and so
there was not really the you know not
that she thought of it as bad in any way
but it was very at that point what it
really taught me was that my needs
weren't going to get met so it took me
probably until my 30s to realize that I
like early 30s late 20s that I even had
needs you know when people were like oh
do you have any needs and I'd say yes
water food and shelter air maybe and
like I had no idea that there was things
there was needs out there to thrive it
was only needs to survive in my mind so
what what did you have in place of needs
it sounds like like schedule or
some outside imposed structure what was
what was the thing that was
was there instead that's a great
question yeah the the
what was there was my duty to make sure
that everything was
was calm you know like there was a duty
to make sure that things didn't get too
overwhelming which was you know
obviously impossible for a young for for
me I was a young boy with a tremendous
amount of energy so
um and and you know had like a
abnormally high IQ and so so I was
constantly getting into stuff but that
was the job like that was the felt sense
of the job at a young age was to
because of course my mom was just deeply
overwhelmed with everything that was
going on and and and it was and she had
had a situation where her mom her dad
died at an early age and so she had
really not deeply explored her Emotional
Self and there was no room for that in
her childhood and so there was not not a
lot of room for my emotional world so
some of my earliest memories were being
made fun of for crime and so
so the needs weren't just a physical
need but the need like the emotional
needs were also not an acceptable thing
at least some of the emotions weren't an
acceptable thing and so
what happened for me was just to even
know that I emotions were something that
were that was important you know
happened in my 30s and and to know that
I had needs you know and then and then
to learn how to identify them and learn
how to ask for them was like a huge
Journey for me
I was a really significant Journey later
in life because of that and and the
other thing I think was that
the the relationship was very much
um
um wanting a level of affection and
nurturing particularly from my mom that
that wasn't there I had it with my dad
in the early years I felt that
deeply in that experience that I didn't
I didn't feel it as much with my mom
when I got sick I would have it she'd be
very nurturing and caring I remember
enjoying being sick because I would get
like this level of care and nurturing
and Attunement that I didn't really get
otherwise
um
you know and and and I can tell just
given her mom like how much more attuned
and how much more
now from this perspective but as a kid
you don't know that at all and so all
that was there was just this
desire to be
yeah to be held in a way that wasn't
that wasn't available yeah yeah I'm
curious there to what extent that loving
loving having her take care of you when
you were sick like liking being sick for
that reason I wonder how much that
relates back to like having learned that
love was being having your bodily State
be managed
hi
yeah that's an interesting
yeah it was I think that's another thing
that was interesting my parents very
much didn't weren't into sports I had
eye issues when I was young I had a lazy
eye and
um and so they didn't want me to fail
and so they they didn't they didn't want
to to teach me failure so they didn't
allow me to do Sports which I think
created modern research would say Well
it probably created more appropriate
deception issues and so I had a lot of
those as well where I was you know very
nerdy clumsy
glasses you know didn't have the same
kind of balance and stuff like that
and so there was something about
the body the body in my family was very
much
not you know is the mind that was the
intelligence that was really important
the body wasn't and the body was to be
controlled and
and so there was definitely huge
portions of my life where I wasn't I
wasn't in harmony with my body I was
overriding my body or telling my body
like not listening to its intelligence
and I would say that's actually
still to this day that's probably a
place where like it requires the most
and it's like the most
energy and attention is to to remember
to keep on coming not on an emotional
like I know my experiential body from
tons of meditation but as far as the the
care of my body to you know make sure
that exercise happens and everything
that still requires more attention it's
not automatic in my system as it would
be if it was you know if I was taught
better than the age
yeah
so something I'm noticing so far is that
um what you're describing sounds sounds
like a pretty common Western kind of
modern experience of upbringing like a
lot of our a lot of our parents have had
similar
kind of starting places in their in
their parenting style and
you know people entering women entering
the workforce more and like sort of the
American experiment shifting more to the
the Dual working family from what other
traditional forms had existed and I'm
curious what if anything contributed to
the pendulum swinging in the other
direction later in your life to be
so heavily invested and interested in
your your emotions that happens in the
than the teenage years like I think the
seed for that happened in the teenage
years so you know parenting now what
like I see is that there's like the will
starts coming online with a kid or the
independence there's like some big thing
that happens at around three and another
one that happens around seven then
another one that happens around 10 and
another one that happens around 13 where
they where the kid's job is to create
more autonomy or they have that friction
between like I want autonomy and I want
care and
and so when that started kicking in for
me
call it like it around 10 years old ish
a couple things happen simultaneously
one is I was
um I was
we lived in Saudi Arabia and then or we
lived in Iran excuse me
and then had to move back to New York
because the the revolution that happened
in Iran in 1978-9
and and then the only school we could
get into was this public school where
my sister and I were the only white kids
in the school and and I was like beat up
on a regular basis and
and occasionally protected because
people had a crush on my sister so
occasionally I get it was kind of like I
got I got allowed to get beat up x
amount but not not past x amount because
it was like
you know you you if they protected me
too much there that was an issue but if
they didn't then you know like it
wouldn't get my sisters you know
attention approval or whatnot so
so that happened so I had a lot of you
know I just seen a war evacuated that
stress moved into a hotel in New York
City for x amount of time just stuck in
a hotel
as kids and then moved into
um into New York City all the time of
this movement happening in me to be
create more Independence and so I'm
dealing with all this trauma and
um and at the same time this is when my
dad is like where a kid normally stops
seeing their dad is like this beautiful
wonderful like can't
can't mess up anything Mo you know my
dad was my hero and then I was starting
to rebel against my father and my father
was not taking it well right and it I
think all that stress also really
increased his alcohol use and uh or
maybe it was just lots of alcohol use
built on itself and so I was dealing
with the one person where I was getting
that Attunement and they were angry at
me regularly yelling at me regularly
um disappointed in me regularly and and
and mood swinging like the way alcoholic
alcoholism does and so
so
my sister obviously dealt with this as
well but it was different she played the
role in the family of like the good
diligent kid and I started to play the
role of the Rebel and so I think a large
portion of my desire to
yeah and I think blessing is that there
was that role because that role was
going to push me into places where my
parents didn't approve and
for a while that was drugs for a while
that was mohawks for a while that was
you know skateboarding and
and you know smoking cigarettes and
um and and drinking at Young ages and
all that stuff and but then eventually
you know by the time I'm in my 20s it
was trying to find alternative ways of
seeing the world that weren't my parents
would have seen the world which words
my dad was very business oriented very
money oriented and my mom was very
science oriented and so I looked for the
place that wasn't science or business
and and I think I think there's also a
natural desire to to explore this area
just because I was looking for relief it
was really [__] painful like by the
time I hit my 20s like existence [__]
hurt it just [__] hurt like the
negative voice in my head was so loud
right that the the criticism of my dad
and my mom at the time
um was just very like I had taken it on
it would become the voice in my head and
it was it was brutal like the I mean I I
had some depression
easily in my like in my
like by 19 years old there was some
depression happening because there was
just this constant negative self-abuse
and and I wasn't crying I wasn't having
any emotional experience
I was just only allowed to be angry
and so and and that that 10 years old
was like just the beginning of it by the
time I was 13 years old I would sit at a
dinner table and I would get yelled at
for like an hour and a half every night
Jess just yelled my dad was deep in the
alcoholism at this time and
maybe yelling and I'd be like fine dad
you're right and he said see I told you
you were [__] weak and you would quit
like it was that level of like verbal
just barraging on a regular basis and
and there was I'd say a subconscious
agreement that it was like my fault it
was I was the problem and it was and
that was a conscious agreement the
subconscious agreement
in the family was uh okay he's he's mad
at him so not at me like like you know
that everybody else was like oh thank
God that it's not but there was also
this moment like can't you just be nice
can't you you know can't you also just
acquiesce to this whatever this is
happening in this
so I felt very isolated so you were the
you were the scapegoat in the dynamic
keeping keeping the game in Play yeah I
was that I was also like the I would say
in like
family therapy thought process I was The
Crucible that kept the parents marriage
alive meaning that I was
I was the problem that they could they
could like come together over so you
know I would I at this point I'm like
obviously didn't want to be home so I
would just like leave and one point they
kicked me out and they had this list of
things that I had to do to come back and
I wouldn't sign the list and
you know like cops had to take me into
the social services it was it was brutal
right and I'm 13 at the time you know
and and I was like trying to figure out
how to live away from home
trying to figure out how to literally I
was like trying to figure out can I rent
a room if I tutor because I had really
good grades at the time and I could I
tutor
kids and make enough money to pay for
rent and food and go to school and when
I went to the council to talk about that
the cops came and picked me up called me
incorrigible took me to Social Services
wow like it was yeah there was there was
right and and then so that part was
interesting so if I if I if I want to I
want to go back to this so the the first
part was the kind of the Attunement
attachment issues what happened in those
first years
what was happening in the second years
was was
um I was learning deeply learning that I
had to do it all myself
that there was nobody who was going to
be there for me
and that I was going to be emotionally
abandoned that love was emotional
abandonment and that
and and though there was these moments
with my mom where I did feel her love
like there was a way that she would
support me there's also where she would
fight through me at the time
where like you know like I would kind of
be her Knight and
and so
there was like both of those things
happening so there were some ways that I
felt you know like virile and
um
but there was there what that wasn't
going to be there for me was that
somebody was going to take care of me so
I was gonna and I was gonna be
emotionally abandoned
um what's interesting is that I never
felt materially abandoned meaning that
my what my dad would do which was
amazing
was that um
like if I ever got in trouble which I
did regularly like went to jail a couple
times uh just for like little stuff
[Music]
um
never never had charges pressed but you
know being a rebel like it just and my
dad would just come and pick me up and
say okay what are we gonna do like it
never I never got in trouble for any of
that
he was just like yeah the cops that yeah
there's like never it was just like he
was very supportive in those moments
which was really fascinating
and also yeah what a mind [__] I never
thought on the one hand to be like okay
well if the cops are if you're in
trouble with the cops everything's hey
you're you're good you're good you're
good and then at the dinner table bruh
it's like it's like nobody else gets to
beat up on you but me almost is the
energy yeah and yes there was that there
was like this a very upset over things
like you know
maybe the coffee you know whatever I'd
messed up a coffee machine or that like
I I criticized something or I didn't
like I didn't wear the bathing suit that
he had bought me that that was like uh
like a St I remember that particular
fight in the hotel room it was like so
bad because he had a bathing he had a
speedo that he wanted me to wear and I
wouldn't wear it but
getting going to the jail for the night
and getting picked up he was just
totally cool
yeah I can't get the picture now out of
my head of you in a speedo how is blue
with like little and you can't you no
you the thing is
the thing is I never wore it and so that
was the thing he really want he had a
matching one he really and and all of
his anger towards me
in retrospect now was him like feeling
unloved
that's what it all was it was like he
thought that I like he still wanted me
to admire him and love him and want to
be him and what he couldn't see was that
I all I wanted was his love and
appreciation
um
so so it was just this yes it was a
really fascinating time but what I
learned there is that
you know and which also that it wasn't
until my 30s where I S well
yeah 30s where I started to undo this
one too which was
like I I was constantly when I noticed
for myself and others when you're
when you're get taught you have to be in
self-reliant it's really great and it
makes you successful in business in many
ways or can
um
but what it also does is it makes it
really hard you make it really hard for
people to help you because you never
trust it because you get angry a lot
so there was like a whole bunch of anger
issues that I had to deal with there was
a whole bunch of self-reliance issues
that allowed it really really difficult
for people to be able to support me
um it allowed intimacy was really
challenging to let Levin was really
challenging all those things and and
then constantly creating it so people
would emotionally abandon me
so that that was all happening and and
that that's what that that's how that
got created yeah
got it so so going in your 20s you've
got this super abusive voice in the head
you're depressed you're miserable at
what point I mean that's where many
people stay and they also don't
necessarily recognize like oh if there's
an abusive voice in my head until they
show up to a workshop and explore it so
I'm curious what had you start to
recognize something was going on that
there was something you could yeah
explore and change I think there's
another thing that was happening was
that like the narcissism had set in at
this point right and by the time my 20s
are coming up like I'm feeling better
than people like that that protection
that is necessary in that world because
the it's like
like there there's I think there's this
reality that happens with kids which is
like if I really allow the truth in it
means like oh my parents can't take care
of me the way that I need to be taken
care of and that's like an untenable
Truth for a child and
and so instead what happened was that I
created this like very big wall of
protection which I would call narcissism
uh
and I don't mean narcissism like
narcissistic personality
disorder kind of stuff I'm I'm I just
mean straight narcissism not yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah but like I was feeling
like I I was often protecting Myself by
feeling I was better very judgmental
um emotional like constipation
I wasn't able to cry
yeah all those things all those things
were happening and so I was not really
available but very much still yearning
for the affection and still yearning for
someone to take care of me and to what
extent were you aware of that yearning
not at all
not at all so what yeah so what happened
was so I think the seed of it was
actually in in Catholicism
you know I I took a lot of solace in
um
and and CCD and the stories of Jesus
like it was the only thing that felt
somewhat real to me
um like this The Parables the
particularly The Parables of Jesus liked
it they felt very
like there was something there in my
young ages and I would like correct the
CCD teacher so I'd get I would get in
trouble there
was like Not only was I rebellious but I
was like capable of being rebellious and
like the most annoying of ways and so
uh but there was something there that
touched me and I got really into deeply
into religion and religious studies so
by the time I go to college
um
I got kicked out of my my first college
with I got 3.95 but I got kicked out for
Behavior basically rebelling against
everything I could rebel against
including myself frankly at the time and
um there's more detail on that story in
some of the early episodes
so the but that Rebellion
um
it it like it with the way it paid off
was like I'm immediate like I got into
Hermann Hess I got into like stories of
Jesus and so when I got to college I
just was like I'm not taking this like
101 class I'm gonna go and substitute it
for like an advanced religious studies
course so I studied Dallas and I studied
like Hermann Hess I studied and that's
where I was I was deeply interested in
these alternative
ways of looking at
at um of life and and spirituality and
whatnot and so I I started to deeply
take a look at that and but it was all
very heady it was all very intellectual
but it opened the door it was like the
seed was planted
that there was like this other
alternative that transformation was
possible
um that there was another way of looking
at it and just like reading
like the texts of twangs I I I I
basically in my 20s I collected Parables
of every different religion and saw that
a lot of them were the same
studied a lot of religions and and how
they were doing the same thing and so
that was I think the very seed of it but
then the real work didn't start until
like The Meditation Retreat yeah yeah
I'm curious when you said like that they
planted the seed that helped you realize
that transformation was possible what
was what had you recognized that it was
transformation and not salvation or some
other concept
that's a great question that was
possible well I think
yeah I think it was the I think
Transcendence was in there for sure uh
uh but Salvation wasn't in there because
I was self-reliant there's no [__]
way salvation was gonna happen
you know that like it like my there was
a whole bunch of stuff that I had to go
over get over like I'm not going to hell
that there's no like
you know
like there's no Heaven and Hell and that
kind of stuff and like that I was taught
in Catholic Church
um that I that I knew and the guilt part
like but the but the idea of being saved
was like that's not happening like that
that's not it couldn't even be a part of
my reality and and and you know as we
think about it now I see that oftentimes
the way that we relate to our parents is
the way that we relate to God is a way
that we relate to money so we're
constantly trying to get our parents
love we're often trying to get money or
if we feel like our authority figure was
never going to save us and usually we
don't believe that God is ever going to
save us and so that's I think that's
where it really came from like there was
just luck in it there was like if I was
in a different role in the family I'm
not sure if I'd ever really be here but
the the yeah that's all that I think is
needed a different path entirely to
something like here right yeah yeah
right the the but I think what's needed
is oh there's a the belief that there's
change possible and
and that there is uh and then the the
drive for that and if you have those two
things I think that that's all that's
really necessary in other words if
you're listening to the podcast you have
everything that's necessary because you
have those two things if you're
listening to this podcast
yeah so the so the seed was planted and
you recognize that transformation was
possible it wasn't something that you
were seeking like salvation or anything
outside of you you looked for
transformation and that you could do it
um yeah but I don't think the work
really there was a there was like that
was all intellectual that was like
reading books and like hat trying to
figure it out
and then there was like oh then there
was like the body experience that
happened and there was the emotional
experience that happened then it was
like oh and that happened because of
really I would say happened because of
my wife so
him 20s my 20 like 26 whatever I can't
I'm not good with dates but met Tara
like within
three months got engaged
and uh married like whatever year and a
half after that I can't remember
something to that effect and
it was got really dysfunctional really
really quickly but before it got
dysfunctional she you know and like
we're in the love phase and it's like
the the engagement happened and one of
the things that she was very adamant
about was that doing a 10-day Meditation
Retreat and I was like yeah we got I got
to do a 10-day Meditation Retreat and
what I just was kind of like
it was that young male energy and it was
like ah I can do that I can just I can
be silent for 10 days that was like the
big challenge hiking amount I had no
idea that it was like I was doing like
one of those hardcore of apostle ones I
had no idea I'd never meditated before I
had no idea of the pain of sitting still
for whatever it is 12 hours a day
didn't know that that was the toughest
part and
um but that was the beginning that was
that's that's when
the thing started in Earnest or moved
out of the head into the body
and I don't know if I've told this story
on the podcast but I feel like it's an
important story to tell again if I have
um but basically in that meditation you
sit still and you just learn to focus
your mind for the first three days and
then at the end of day three or the
beginning of day four or something like
that you move your attention up and down
and I had this moment of
uh Oneness with the universe and that
that thing it lasts about eight seconds
and it was during the first solid sit
that I did moving the attention around
and all of a sudden I was just like and
everything [__] disappeared and I was
the universe and the universe was me
it was just a very felt sensation of
that and
and I Disappeared would be another way
to say it and and all the Buddhists have
should have like a very specific you
know word for this particular kind of
opening and
um and but what that was was like God's
Little heroin dose it was like like that
was like that gave that gave me just
enough that the rest of my [__] life
was about for that's [__] possible I
am gonna do whatever the [__] I have to
do to get there what was so attractive
about it so you described this in sort
of the the heady way of like I was one
with the universe but what what made
eight seconds of that
like heroin and that you wanted it so
badly
then my my ego was gone like the thing
that the the constant editor of Life the
the separation
the the the the the
you know the thing that you know in the
ultimate sense the thing that I was
taught my whole life which is that like
I was a separate and I was a problem
that was gone it was like I was just one
with everything there was no fight left
there was there was nothing to fight
because I was it
the the feeling was of
you know being vastness it was like it
was like imagine if you could feel
what it would be like to be
to be nature
not to be in nature but to be nature
like that's what that's that was the
feeling and I was gone in that moment
and you know I I
that was the experience for eight
seconds it was just like and whatever
that was I was gonna do whatever and and
unfortunately unfortunately but
unfortunately what happened in my
journey at that point was
I tried to recreate that
for years I think eight years or
something like that maybe seven years I
tried to recreate that experience and
that like is just flogging yourself and
it's like I immediately took this thing
that was my nature that I got a taste of
and I made it a goal and I made it
effort
and I made it something that I had to
achieve to be good enough
I I turned it into all of these things
that were that were
that denied the the the nature of what I
had experienced I immediately Co-op or
my brain immediately co-opted it and was
like
and I would literally I remember like
sitting meditating trying to effort
myself back into that experience
experience again not ever recognizing
for for years that it was it it was
received it wasn't created
it's like your memory of the experience
ended up taking the shape of all of the
blocks that would stop you from being in
that experience all the time
yes yeah that's a great way to
fascinating yeah
yeah and so and but so that was the
unfortunate part about the fortunate
part about it was that
um I was like that's when it opened up I
will [__] take any tool I will do
anything I will travel to wherever and
do whatever
to get that back
and so
the the benefit is that when I was doing
that I
I am because of my Fierce like will that
I was taught
and the fierce like
self-independence the
I I just went for
in my conditioning I just went for every
possible tool that I could ever find and
just tried it out and and I was doing
that like I did that with instead of
working for most of you know most of my
for them most of the next eight years I
I just did that all the time so like
late 20s early 30s yeah until about 35.
yeah I was just constantly this therapy
this course this
I was there I was in it and and and what
I didn't know until later was
um because I've seen some people go into
that space and it and it happens but
like all the psychological stuff all the
emotional stuff is still unhealed
undoubt with and so
that can get really complicated and so
what was lucky is that not only did I
learn a tremendous amount of tools that
like which puts me in a position right
now to do the work that I do
but I also healed a lot of stuff before
I could access that space or before I
realized that that was my that space was
my nature that that was where I rested
and so there was a lot of work that was
done which was really I'm very very
grateful for but the pain The Experience
itself was painful as [__] because I was
constantly not there I was constantly
trying to [__] be somewhere that I
wasn't I was caught I was just using it
as a way to beat myself up so all of
that stuff just was like it was painful
as [__]
yeah
yeah something that's interesting about
about you in particular to me is that
you know there's many people who have an
intellectual level understanding of
like Mystic Concepts and meditation and
all the different layers and levels in
the elephant path and all the different
things you can do in the Neuroscience
behind it and then there's a lot of
people that have that I see that have a
lot of the
felt sense capacity to like reach these
states meditating yeah and
there's something that's less common
than I see in you which has had me very
attracted to this work is that emotional
and psychological layer and for myself
I've been focusing Less on the
meditative practice and more on the
psychological emotional stuff just kind
of trusting that the more the more I
work through my emotional stuff the more
I just am in myself as in my natural
state and less in my conditioning or
whatever whatever story that is yeah and
I'm curious like for you what made that
what made it that your path brought you
into so much contact with this emotional
and psychological
side of this
so I I think I was just lucky born at
the right time meaning that like I was
born at a time when there was free
meditation Retreats happening for the
first time and you know I mean maybe it
started in the 60s and 70s and so I'm
doing it in the 90s and I would say the
version like 3.0 of Psychology was
happening where it like it passed Freud
and it had passed some of the other
stuff and there was like this kind of
more integrated psychological approach
and so there was just a lot of tools
available and I was living in California
so there was just a [__] ton of tools
available and I didn't distinguish
between a meditation tool and a
spiritual tool for whatever reason my
brain was like
I will just take any tool there's some
wisdom if this tool if I saw something
that affected somebody in a positive way
I was like I'll do that and I didn't
give a [__] what it was I was like I was
very lucky in the fact that I wasn't
religious about it and like some people
are religious about like psychology
doesn't work psychology does work you
know or some people religious about it
like psychedelics work and some people
were like psychedelics don't worry like
I didn't give a sh if I saw somebody
change I didn't care what you called it
I just did it and so and there was just
a lot of it available
and I was really lucky there was like I
I could read non-dual teachers which I
did a tremendous amount and and I could
read them from like
2 000 years of history and
cross-culturally and you know I could
talk you know read a guy who was a
heroin addict non-dual teacher ex-heron
addict from Holland and I could read you
know a 1200 year old zen teacher and
like I had that and then I could go do
the Hoffman process and I could you know
I had a great therapist and you know so
it was just I was just very fortunate
and and a lot of it like the
introduction to it a lot of it was Tara
who had just started discovering herself
had just done a retreat or part of a
retreat and Silent tree had a therapist
and it was really good so there was
so there was like that I was very
fortunate that way Tara started to open
the door and then and then because I was
rebellious I was in this art artistic
community in the 90s in San Francisco
and so there was all sorts of
alternative things that were happening
that I got to try out and I got to see
people transform and anytime I saw it I
was just like what are you doing how get
me in you know like that was the thing
and so I think that's what what I think
I just got lucky
and but there was there was something
else that happened too which was and I
know I've told this story but some part
of the recognition that I stopped crying
from that early childhood time that
emotions were shut down and I saw that
picture of me being made fun of her
crying and I
and I was like okay this I just know
something's not right about this and so
that's like what began the emotional
inquiry and also like
the relationship with Tara I see this in
a lot of relationships one person kind
of holds the emotional and one person
holds the intellectual and the
intellectual person's like I'm better
than you because you're like out of
control with emotions and the emotional
person's like I'm not as good as this
person but also [__] you I'm better than
you
well Tara was really really willful and
and so she was just not going to give up
like she's like yeah I don't care I
don't believe your logic I don't give
like you're not smarter than me because
she's also like just you know she also
knew she had like this crazy brain on
her and and she but she had done this
acting and so she knew this emotional
stuff was important and valuable
and so part of it was just her absolute
will
to to just not like I'm not [__]
giving in to you which was you know part
of her parenting patterns and so and
that's what I was attracted to you know
in my
before Tara I was you know I was trying
to get over my
my you know the lack of availability of
my mom's nurturing and so I was just
seeking it in any woman that I could
find it I was sleeping around
tremendously and it was like typically
like sleep around they would chase me
I'd be like now I'm out of here and Tara
was the first one was like I can [__]
take her leave you and so I was like oh
that's you know like somehow I felt like
oh I can I can depend on that because
that person that person that person
doesn't need me and since I couldn't
love my own need at the time
I I you know that just felt safe and so
that willfulness I think was a huge part
of me
of me going okay like I'm not gonna win
this fight but I'm not she's never gonna
agree that I'm better than her because
of my intellect so and and I got to see
some of the benefits of her emotionality
and
so that's that's also a big part of it
all right thank you Joe we're gonna
pause this right here and we're gonna
come back again in another episode to
finish the conversation thank you
everybody for listening and if you know
somebody who might appreciate what
you've heard today please pass this
along and share what resonated for you
we love your feedback so hit us with
comments or questions through our
website Circle Community or tweet us at
Art of a comp you can reach out join our
newsletter or check out our courses at
Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]
thank you